    MCV Structure

    First, I have experience in building applications with a MCV structure. I learned how to program rails applications using the MCV structure while at NYCDA. I built multiple applications that benefited from the rails MCV structure. Developing with MCV, helped me to understand how the different parts of a program connect from the front end to the database.

    First, ruby on rails uses the model controller view structure and it was a major focus of my education at NYCDA.  Rails makes using the MCV structure pretty easy because it will help a programmer generate most of the files and folders necessary for the structure.  Even though rails will do this automatically if the correct commands are entered, at NYCDA, we learned how the structure works so we could build everything manually if it is necessary for a project.  We started by first learning sinatra which is a good introduction to MCV because it uses views and controller like functions in a main ruby file without directly incorporating models.  After learning sinatra, the switch to rails helped me to see how the different parts of the MCV interact.

    Second, I have built multiple rails web applications that rely on the MCV structure.  For example, one of my first applications was a twitter like messaging app.  This application had multiple models, including users, posts, comments, following relationships, and hashtags.  The users and posts models and the posts and comments models were both one to many relationships. Also, the following relationships model had a many to many relationship with users and the hashtags model had a many to many relationship with posts.  I was able to then use these model relationships to build logic in the controller that allowed people to create, update, access, and destroy information in the database through the view.  For example, when users would submit a new post, the text they entered into the view would be passed to a controller that would take their new post message and store it in the database as set out in the post model.  Then when the user went to their profile page, the view would request from the data base through the controller all of the different posts created by that user and display them on the page.  All of this functionality was possible by using the rails MCV structure.

    Third, using the MCV structure in rails has helped me to understand the relationship between the front end and the back end of web development. Because the MCV structure separates front end code to the view files and backend code to the model files with controllers being the go between, I have a better understanding of how the front and back interact.  Views dictate what the user sees and how the user can interact with the program.  This is controlled by HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files.  The controller files dictate what information is passed to the views from the database and what is passed from the user to the data base.  For example, when a user signs up for a web application and puts information in a form the controller interprets that information and using it tells the data base what to store.  The models tell the database how to structure the information that we want to be stored.  For example, if we want to store information about a user, we would use a model that would have keys for the user's name, email address, password and anything else we wanted.  Then when we created a form in the view to get this information the controller would take it from the view and store it in the data base as dictated by the model.

    Finally, The MCV structure is very useful because it organizes all of the different front end and back end functionality into the applicable files.  This helps a developer to keep track of what they are implementing and knowing exactly where to go depending on if they want to make changes to front end or back end capabilities.  It also unlocks the powerful capabilities of a data base and allows a programmer to tap into massive amounts of information without having to include it all in the actual program code files.  I am glad that I have been able to learn how to code with a MCV language like rails because I think it helps me to understand the whole functionality of a program and see how the different pieces interact with each other.  This is beneficial so that even if I only write the code for one aspect of an application, like the front end, I know how to write the code so that it works better with what other people are building for the backend
