Here is a proposal for three weather forecasting gems to be used for our weather app.  I chose all three of these gems because they had a lot of downloads and all seem relatively simple to use.

1. The forecast_io gem has 82,707 downloads and was last updated on July 5, 2013.  The documention address is http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/forecast_io/2.0.0. To use the gem, you need to install the forecast_io and typhoes gem.  The only way you can request weather is by giving the exact latitude and longitude of the location.  You can request weather at a future time, however only at one specific future time.  You need to use an API key in order to access the informaiton.


2. The yahoo_weatherman gem has 34,239 downloads and was last updated on January 24, 2013.  The documenation address is https://github.com/dlt/yahoo_weatherman.  This access weather information from yahoo weather.  You do not need an API key inorder to access the information.  Like forecast-io you can request weather at a future time but only at one future time.  You can request the weather of a location using a few different options.  You can use the location's zipcode, the city name, or even the name of the location, such as the Philadelphia Art Museum.


3. The wunderground gem has 43,730 downloads and was last updated on February 11, 2014.  The documenation address is http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/wunderground/1.2.0.  This gem gets information from the weather underground website database.  You do need to use an API key to access the information but it can be sent in an environmental variable to make the request process easier.  You are allowed to access multiple different types of information assoicated with the weather such as the weather forecasts, the weather conditions, live webcams, and alerts for locations.  The location can be input through four different methods.  These include the city and state, zip code, latitude and longitude, or even ip address.  The requests can be returned in languages other than english such as french.  You can also request weather history spanning multiple dates and get weather in the future spanning multiple dates in a single request.

I think the best gem to move forward with is the wunderground gem. Although it does not have the most downloads it has been updated more recently than the other gems.  Also, it provodes access to a lot more information than the other two gems with webcams, forecasts, conditions, etc.  It also allows for multiple methods of entering in the location undlike the forecast_io gem which only has latitude and longitude.  I also like that it allows for the API key to be stored in an environmental variable. Finally, I think weather underground provides the best information and has more accurate weather forecasting than yahoo weather.


